---
title: "Why I Won't Compete in Bodybuilding Again"
subtitle: "Does your fitness align with your values? "
slug: "bodybuilding"
publishedAt: "2023-04-23T11:30:00.000Z"
thumbnailUrl: "https://beehiiv-images-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/asset/file/919e3a45-5328-4d08-a81b-2abbf80727e3/gorilla-freak-wt5jg8_WrJg-unsplash.jpg?t=1682215899"
webUrl: "https://ryancombes.com/p/bodybuilding"
tags: ["masculinity"]
backup_date: "2025-09-28T03:07:30.058Z"
beehiiv_id: "post_f14a182a-f5a8-404e-aeb2-971f63af5d8c"
---

# Why I Won't Compete in Bodybuilding Again

*Does your fitness align with your values? *



Why I Won t Compete in Bodybuilding Again Does your fitness align with your values? Ryan Combes April 23, 2023 Hey Friend, Last week, I posed half-naked in front of hundreds of people (including my family) to be judged on how attractive my body is . Here’s my post on it (with pics 😉 😉). As you can see, I have mixed feelings about it. Today I’m going to share some lessons learned that may be of use to you. Why I Won’t Do It Again First, let me say that I AM proud of myself. For the past ~7 years, I have dedicated myself to my health and fitness. This dedication showed in the body I displayed. However, the man that posed up there is not representative of the man I strive to be. Doing so felt contradictory to the message I put out. Masculinity is not about looking sexy. Attractiveness is a component of it, sure, in so far as it helps you find a partner and builds self confidence. But it by no means is an end-all-be-all. Obsession with appearance leads to self-obsession and narcissism. This is the opposite of a self-sacrificing, protecting, and providing man , which is the masculinity I aspire towards. So, what can you learn from my experience and what will I do instead? Three Lessons 1. DO push your body as far as it can go. There is so much to learn from physical exertion. You WILL become a better man by getting stronger and more fit. You WILL feel better. You WILL look better. You WILL be more able of protecting and providing. We all know this. But have you made it a priority? If looking sexy is you main motivation right now, go for it. Whatever gets you pushing your body and training your mind. 2. DON T compare. I do not follow bodybuilders on Instagram. When I did watch a couple of how-to videos on posing for the competition, I immediately felt insecure. I m not muscular enough, I m too fat. It feels absurd looking at the pictures of me, but you will ALWAYS find someone better than you. Play your own game. Beat who you were yesterday. Learn from others, but don t compare. Unfollow and unsubscribe from anyone who only adds shame. It s not worth it. 3. DO fall in love with BEING healthy and fit. Yes, I enjoyed a cheat meal or two after my competition. I ate some fast carbs (and damn can they be tasty). But that desire disappeared within 2-3 days. Now, I am back to the same old: Hitting the gym, eating healthy, and finding new ways to push myself. It is not about the competition . This applies to any form of success . When you sell your company, you might ball out for a bit, but soon you ll be onto your next company. When your book hits the bestseller list, you might celebrate, but soon you ll be onto the next book. If you realize this ahead of time, you can enjoy those hours spent grinding so much more. You will know that IS the reward and find true joy in the process. What I’m Doing Next I believe more than ever in the power of fitness for mind, body, and soul. If you become disciplined with your body, you inevitably push yourself in other parts of life. Before you know it, you re ahead of 90% of people because you ve learned the universal SKILL of discipline . BUT, it seems there is a second stage of fitness. The first stage is training your body for the sake of training your body. The second stage is training your body to reinforce the values you aspire to embody . You ask the question: Does HOW I am working out align with who I want to be? You can begin tailoring your training to make your body strong AND reinforce your values. This is why there are martial arts (e.g. Judo) that combine philosophy with physical training. The physical is a reflection of the mental/spiritual. This is something I intend to dive into much more and will write more about in the future. Conclusion That s it for this week, my Friend. TLDR : 1) Push your body, 2) don t compare, and 3) love the process. Push your limits physically and you will push your limits in every other aspect of life. After you ve done this for a while, explore how you can connect your training to your values. Reinforce who you want to be with how you move your body. Create a unified mind, body, and soul that stands for something. The goal is unobstructed self-expression. Josh Waitzkin Express yourself. Until next time! Much love, Ryan P.S. I only post about ½ of my tweets onto Instagram, so if you want a more frequent dose of Ryan, follow me on Twitter. Here are a few from this past week: “An adventure is true if you aren’t crafting the outcome. It means you’ve decided that the truth will set you free.” - Jordan Peterson If life is the ultimate adventure, why do we insist on knowing the ending? Ryan Combes (@ryan_combes) 11:08 PM • Apr 15, 2023 Men are not meant to live alone in the woods. That’s not to say freedom isn’t crucial. But if we prioritize independence over all else, meaning disappears. Find who and what needs you, and give it your all. Purpose will come. Ryan Combes (@ryan_combes) 11:53 AM • Apr 17, 2023 “We’re not seeking a meaning to life. We’re looking for the feeling of being alive.” - Joseph Campbell In life’s most exhilarating moments, are you pondering the meaning of it all? Ryan Combes (@ryan_combes) 2:41 AM • Apr 21, 2023

---

**Original URL:** https://ryancombes.com/p/bodybuilding
**Backup Date:** 9/28/2025
**Beehiiv ID:** post_f14a182a-f5a8-404e-aeb2-971f63af5d8c
